one of the things we're looking for is a
deep commitment to Georgia people who
have lived in Georgia people who plan to
practice in Georgia and also people
who've done some thinking about how
they're going to structure their career
around primary care and round service to
to the citizens Georgia so in the
application we look at things you've
done for people less fortunate and then
yourself orientations you've had to let
us know that you understand what primary
care is if you've shadowed with a
primary care physician we look at your
essay to see how well you would really
understand the field that you're going
to be getting into what you understand
medicine is in the context of what's
going on in this country and also in the
state of Georgia our school was started
as a partnership between Mercer
University and the state of Georgia the
state has always supported us
significantly financially and and the
reason they've been willing to do that
is because our school has a mission and
that mission is to prepare physicians to
practice primary care in rural and
underserved parts of Georgia and we
believe very strongly in that mission we
don't require it but we try to slant our
admissions process toward people who we
believe are likely to satisfy our
mission one of the understandings we
have on the admissions committee is that
the stronger the roots are to Georgia
the more likely you are going to serve
in Georgia and because of that we look
at people who basically are our Georgia
residents and can prove that they're a
Georgia resident there's a lot of data
out there's a lot of studies showing
that the the more the ties to an area
the more likely are to go back to take
care of the people in that area if I
have two identical nearly identical
academic academically qualified
interviews if one of them comes from
you know north atlanta and one of them
comes from say lately or some small town
somewhere in georgia that small town
person frankly has an advantage for us
people who have grown up in a small town
are much more likely to go back to one
the people who've never lived in a small
town in our admissions process we look
for activities you have done on your own
to to show that you want to better
understand the field you're going
getting into some of these have to do
with volunteer activities that you do
and this is not you know what you did in
your fraternity one weekend this is
something showing a continuing
commitment to understand the issues that
impact healthcare the issues that impact
people who come from less fortunate
situations and also show that you have a
active interest in understanding the
profession of getting into one of the
best ways of doing this is shadowing and
it's not one day with one doctor this is
a long-term shadowing process where you
develop a relationship preferably with
somebody in primary care that shows that
you have been around this person you
understand this person you've had a
chance to interact with patients in
proper situations and from this type of
long-term shadowing we get some idea
whether or not you really understand the
business that you're getting into
likewise if somebody if i have two
totally comparable applicants one of
them there's been very active outside of
school but their activity has been the
basketball team you know the golf team
maybe the Beta Club whereas the other
one's activity has been they've
established the the Habitat for Humanity
assist program for the school or they've
gone out and worked with people in a
clinic who needed help but they've
organized
students other fellow students to go
work with some charity that person is
shown an interest in serving those who
need help and that's so that person
likewise will have a better chance of
getting into Mercer than the person who
has at times such things one of the
favorite quotes I have to try to explain
what who kind of do come from the great
philosopher Mike Ditka and what he was
saying and what's it take to win at a
level he said it's very important that
you look and try to recruit people in
they need to have a combination of
talent and mission because if you have
mission without talent that is a
daydream if you have talent without
mission that is a nightmare what we're
trying to do in the admissions committee
is to sort out the day dreamers and the
nightmares because what we want to do is
get people who can get the job done can
master this curriculum but are going to
go out to an underserved community
that's what's going to win for the
citizens of Georgia netl we're looking
for in this admissions committee the way
we look at admissions I think our
results speak for themselves we have a
high percentage of our graduates about
2/3 of them ended up in Georgia which is
the most important thing to us of all so
that's why we don't even look at people
who are not from Georgia you have to be
a Georgia resident to go here so we have
a high percentage there and of those who
ended up in Georgia a very high
percentage of enter depth in primary
care which has been our goal all along
so I think we've done a good job of
satisfying the hopes that the state had
for us and the hope that the university
had for this school when it was started
and it's been a really good ongoing
partnership which we obviously hope will
continue